# Hotel_Review_Sentiment_Analysis

In today’s digital age we are seeing the 5-star review scale in almost every part of our lives. Businesses such as Uber, Yelp, and Amazon use this rating system to get customer feedback on various aspects of their business. Consumers read and research other consumer’s experiences when considering their purchases. Positive reviews are valuable because it can lead to increased sales and negative reviews can be harmful because it can lead to a potential loss in customers, and therefore a business should care about how their customers are interacting with their brand.

TripAdvisor.com is an online travel company where users can rate and review features of travel such as hotels and restaurants. TripAdvisor currently averages 390 million monthly unique visitors and has amassed 435 million reviews and opinions making it the world’s largest online travel platform. Using a data set provided by Carnegie Mellon’s School of Computer Science, which consists of consists of 878,561 reviews from 4,333 hotels in JSON format, I did sentiment analysis to discover which words were more important in both positive and negative reviews. In this problem I classified 4- and 5-star reviews as “positive” and anything less as “negative.” The statistic used to evaluate the importance of a word is the term frequency-inverse document frequency. The importance increases proportionally to the number of times a word appears in the document but is offset by the frequency of the word in the corpus. This was done treating positive and negative reviews as separate documents.
Using the Map-Reduce model I extracted the words from the reviews and calculated the necessary values in subsequent steps for that word by the sentiment type. Some of the words in the results below do not tell us much but we can see that words such as “room” and “staff” show up towards the top in both positive and negative reviews meaning these are important aspects of a customer’s experience. To ensure customers are satisfied and give positive ratings hotels should focus on providing excellent service in these areas.



[Data Set Link](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jiweil/html/hotel-review.html)
